README.md, before:

# OpenVSCode Server

[![Gitpod ready-to-code](https://img.shields.io/badge/Gitpod-ready--to--code-908a85?logo=gitpod)](https://gitpod.io/from-referrer)
[![GitHub](https://img.shields.io/github/license/gitpod-io/openvscode-server)](https://github.com/gitpod-io/openvscode-server/blob/main/LICENSE.txt)
[![Discord](https://img.shields.io/discord/816244985187008514)](https://www.gitpod.io/chat)

## What is this?

This project provides a version of VS Code that runs a server on a remote machine and allows access through a modern web browser. It's based on the very same architecture used by [Gitpod](https://www.gitpod.io) or [GitHub Codespaces](https://github.com) at scale.

<img width="1624" alt="Screenshot 2021-09-02 at 08 39 26" src="https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/372735/131794918-d6602646-4d67-435b-88fe-620a3cc0a3aa.png">

## Why?

VS Code has traditionally been a desktop IDE built with web technologies. A few years back, people started patching it in order to run it in a remote context and to make it accessible through web browsers. These efforts have been complex and error prone, because many changes had to be made across the large code base of VS Code.

Luckily, in 2019 the VS Code team started to refactor its architecture to support a browser-based working mode. While this architecture has been adopted by Gitpod and GitHub, the important bits have not been open-sourced, until now. As a result, many people in the community still use the old, hard to maintain and error-prone approach.

At Gitpod, we've been asked a lot about how we do it. So we thought we might as well share the minimal set of changes needed so people can rely on the latest version of VS Code, have a straightforward upgrade path and low maintenance effort.

## Getting started

### Docker

- Start the server:
```bash
docker run -it --init -p 3000:3000 -v "$(pwd):/home/workspace:cached" gitpod/openvscode-server
```
- Visit the URL printed in your terminal. Just going to port 3000 won't work, because VS Code requires that you provide a uniquely generated security token to prevent unauthorized access.

#### A note about security tokens

Since OpenVSCode Server v1.62, you must access the Web UI using a connection token generated by the server. If that's not what you're looking for, and instead want to generate these tokens by yourself, start the server with `--connectionToken YOUR_TOKEN` to force your secret to be used. If you want your development environment to be even more secure, create a plaintext file with the desired token as its contents and provide it to the server with `--connection-secret YOUR_SECRET_FILE`.

_Note_: Feel free to use the `nightly` tag to test the latest version, i.e. `gitpod/openvscode-server:nightly`.

#### Custom Environment
- If you want to add dependencies to this Docker image, here is a template to help:
	```Dockerfile

	FROM gitpod/openvscode-server:latest

	USER root # to get permissions to install packages and such
	RUN # the installation process for software needed
	USER openvscode-server # to restore permissions for the web interface

	```
- For additional possibilities, please consult the `Dockerfile` for OpenVSCode Server at https://github.com/gitpod-io/openvscode-releases/

### Linux

- [Download the latest release](https://github.com/gitpod-io/openvscode-server/releases/latest)
- Untar and run the server:
```bash
tar -xzf openvscode-server-v${OPENVSCODE_SERVER_VERSION}.tar.gz
cd openvscode-server-v${OPENVSCODE_SERVER_VERSION}
./server.sh
```
- Visit the URL printed in your terminal. Just going to port 3000 won't work, because VS Code requires that you provide a uniquely generated security token to prevent unauthorized access.

_Note_: You can use [pre-releases](https://github.com/gitpod-io/openvscode-server/releases) to test nightly changes.

### Deployment guides

Please refer to [Guides](https://github.com/gitpod-io/openvscode-server/tree/docs/guides) to learn how to deploy OpenVSCode Server to your cloud provider of choice.

## The scope of this project

This project only adds minimal bits required to run VS Code in a server scenario. We have no intention of changing VS Code in any way or to add additional features to VS Code itself. Please report feature requests, bug fixes, etc. in the upstream repository.

> **For any feature requests, bug reports, or contributions that are not specific to running VS Code in a server context, please go to [Visual Studio Code - Open Source "OSS"](https://github.com/microsoft/vscode)**

## Documentation

All documentation is available in [the `docs` branch](https://github.com/gitpod-io/openvscode-server/tree/docs) of this project.

## Supporters

The project is supported by companies such as [GitLab](https://gitlab.com/), [VMware](https://www.vmware.com/), [Uber](https://www.uber.com/), [SAP](https://www.sap.com/), [Sourcegraph](https://sourcegraph.com/), [RStudio](https://www.rstudio.com/), [SUSE](https://rancher.com/), [Tabnine](https://www.tabnine.com/), [Render](https://render.com/) and [TypeFox](https://www.typefox.io/).

## Contributing

Thanks for your interest in contributing to the project 🙏. You can start a development environment with the following button:

[![Open in Gitpod](https://gitpod.io/button/open-in-gitpod.svg)](https://gitpod.io/from-referrer)

To learn about the code structure and other topics related to contributing, please refer to the [development docs](https://github.com/gitpod-io/openvscode-server/blob/docs/development.md).

## Community & Feedback

To learn what others are up to and to provide feedback, please head over to the [Discussions](https://github.com/gitpod-io/openvscode-server/discussions).

You can also follow us on Twitter [@gitpod](https://twitter.com/gitpod) or come [chat with us](https://www.gitpod.io/chat).

## Legal
This project is not affiliated with Microsoft Corporation.

Commit message:

Add Example of Setting Connection Token
For users using Docker Compose this provides an example of setting a connection token by using 'command'.

README.md, after:

# OpenVSCode Server

[![Gitpod ready-to-code](https://img.shields.io/badge/Gitpod-ready--to--code-908a85?logo=gitpod)](https://gitpod.io/from-referrer)
[![GitHub](https://img.shields.io/github/license/gitpod-io/openvscode-server)](https://github.com/gitpod-io/openvscode-server/blob/main/LICENSE.txt)
[![Discord](https://img.shields.io/discord/816244985187008514)](https://www.gitpod.io/chat)

## What is this?

This project provides a version of VS Code that runs a server on a remote machine and allows access through a modern web browser. It's based on the very same architecture used by [Gitpod](https://www.gitpod.io) or [GitHub Codespaces](https://github.com) at scale.

<img width="1624" alt="Screenshot 2021-09-02 at 08 39 26" src="https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/372735/131794918-d6602646-4d67-435b-88fe-620a3cc0a3aa.png">

## Why?

VS Code has traditionally been a desktop IDE built with web technologies. A few years back, people started patching it in order to run it in a remote context and to make it accessible through web browsers. These efforts have been complex and error prone, because many changes had to be made across the large code base of VS Code.

Luckily, in 2019 the VS Code team started to refactor its architecture to support a browser-based working mode. While this architecture has been adopted by Gitpod and GitHub, the important bits have not been open-sourced, until now. As a result, many people in the community still use the old, hard to maintain and error-prone approach.

At Gitpod, we've been asked a lot about how we do it. So we thought we might as well share the minimal set of changes needed so people can rely on the latest version of VS Code, have a straightforward upgrade path and low maintenance effort.

## Getting started

### Docker

- Start the server:
```bash
docker run -it --init -p 3000:3000 -v "$(pwd):/home/workspace:cached" gitpod/openvscode-server
```
- Visit the URL printed in your terminal. Just going to port 3000 won't work, because VS Code requires that you provide a uniquely generated security token to prevent unauthorized access.

#### A note about security tokens

Since OpenVSCode Server v1.62, you must access the Web UI using a connection token generated by the server. If that's not what you're looking for, and instead want to generate these tokens by yourself, start the server with `--connectionToken YOUR_TOKEN` to force your secret to be used. If you want your development environment to be even more secure, create a plaintext file with the desired token as its contents and provide it to the server with `--connection-secret YOUR_SECRET_FILE`.

For those using docker-compose you can set a connection token by using `command`. For example:

```yaml
command: --connectionToken yourTokenHere
```

_Note_: Feel free to use the `nightly` tag to test the latest version, i.e. `gitpod/openvscode-server:nightly`.

#### Custom Environment
- If you want to add dependencies to this Docker image, here is a template to help:
	```Dockerfile

	FROM gitpod/openvscode-server:latest

	USER root # to get permissions to install packages and such
	RUN # the installation process for software needed
	USER openvscode-server # to restore permissions for the web interface

	```
- For additional possibilities, please consult the `Dockerfile` for OpenVSCode Server at https://github.com/gitpod-io/openvscode-releases/

### Linux

- [Download the latest release](https://github.com/gitpod-io/openvscode-server/releases/latest)
- Untar and run the server:
```bash
tar -xzf openvscode-server-v${OPENVSCODE_SERVER_VERSION}.tar.gz
cd openvscode-server-v${OPENVSCODE_SERVER_VERSION}
./server.sh
```
- Visit the URL printed in your terminal. Just going to port 3000 won't work, because VS Code requires that you provide a uniquely generated security token to prevent unauthorized access.

_Note_: You can use [pre-releases](https://github.com/gitpod-io/openvscode-server/releases) to test nightly changes.

### Deployment guides

Please refer to [Guides](https://github.com/gitpod-io/openvscode-server/tree/docs/guides) to learn how to deploy OpenVSCode Server to your cloud provider of choice.

## The scope of this project

This project only adds minimal bits required to run VS Code in a server scenario. We have no intention of changing VS Code in any way or to add additional features to VS Code itself. Please report feature requests, bug fixes, etc. in the upstream repository.

> **For any feature requests, bug reports, or contributions that are not specific to running VS Code in a server context, please go to [Visual Studio Code - Open Source "OSS"](https://github.com/microsoft/vscode)**

## Documentation

All documentation is available in [the `docs` branch](https://github.com/gitpod-io/openvscode-server/tree/docs) of this project.

## Supporters

The project is supported by companies such as [GitLab](https://gitlab.com/), [VMware](https://www.vmware.com/), [Uber](https://www.uber.com/), [SAP](https://www.sap.com/), [Sourcegraph](https://sourcegraph.com/), [RStudio](https://www.rstudio.com/), [SUSE](https://rancher.com/), [Tabnine](https://www.tabnine.com/), [Render](https://render.com/) and [TypeFox](https://www.typefox.io/).

## Contributing

Thanks for your interest in contributing to the project 🙏. You can start a development environment with the following button:

[![Open in Gitpod](https://gitpod.io/button/open-in-gitpod.svg)](https://gitpod.io/from-referrer)

To learn about the code structure and other topics related to contributing, please refer to the [development docs](https://github.com/gitpod-io/openvscode-server/blob/docs/development.md).

## Community & Feedback

To learn what others are up to and to provide feedback, please head over to the [Discussions](https://github.com/gitpod-io/openvscode-server/discussions).

You can also follow us on Twitter [@gitpod](https://twitter.com/gitpod) or come [chat with us](https://www.gitpod.io/chat).

## Legal
This project is not affiliated with Microsoft Corporation.
